# CryptoClustering
In this analysis, unsupervised learning methods have been used to predict how cryptocurrencies are affected by price changes during various time periods (from 24 hours to one year).

First, data pre-processing was performed using StandardScaler to scale all data to the same order of magnitude. Then, the elbow method was used to determine the optimal amount of clusters (k) in the scaled dataset, which was found to be 4. The KMeans algorithm was performed to predict clusters from the scaled data, and plotted as 24 hour price change vs 7 day price change. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was then performed to simplify the dataset. Three principal components were kept and the elbow method and KMeans analysis were repeated. The optimal "k" value was found to be 4 again with the simplified data. The PCA clusters were plotted for principal component 1 vs principal component 2. 

For this dataset, the difference between the clusters with and without PCA was small, as the clusters were grouped similarly. The clustering after PCA was performed did separate a few outlier points out more distinctly. Overall, there appear to be two primary clusters for each analysis. For clustering using the full dataset, 24 hour change has little effect and 7 day change has a positive effect for cluster 1, and a negative effect for cluster 0. Cluster 2 and 3 are single point outliers. Looking at the PCA clustering of PC1 vs PC2, both cluster 1 and 2 have a positive correlation with PC1, while cluster 1 has a slight negative correlation with PC2 and cluster 2 has a slight positive correlation with PC2.

Sources (used to create and format hvplots): https://holoviews.org/user_guide/Customizing_Plots.html, https://blog.deepsim.xyz/data-visualization-hvplot-multiple-plots/#:~:text=In%20this%20article%2C%20we%20will%20display%20how%20to,the%20plots%20in%20this%20article%20with%20that%20method.
